.\" process with:
.\" groff -man -Tascii rsa_dec.1 | less

.TH "rsa_dec" "1" "" "Ilan A. Smith" "Encryption Utilities"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
rsa_dec \- an RSA key generator and decrypter

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
rsa_dec \-g <key\-name> | \-\-generate=<key\-name>
.br 
rsa_dec [ OPTIONS ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The rsa_dec utility decrypts data encrypted by the rsa_enc utility using the 
RSA public key crypto system.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-s \-\-scan\fR
Scans the key directory and outputs the available keys.
.TP 
\fB\-x[key] \-\-default[=key]\fR
Set the default private Key. \fIkey\fR is the key name output by the \-\-scan 
option. If \fIkey\fR is not provided no default private key is set. Otherwise, 
\fIkey\fR is set as default private key (if it exists).
.TP 
\fB\-p \-\-path\fR
Output the path where new RSA key pairs are to be generated and where existing 
private keys are to be searched. If RSA_KEYPATH is set then its value is 
returned, otherwise it is the current working directory.
.TP 
\fB\-q \-\-quiet\fR
Provide minimal output.
.TP 
\fB\-v \-\-verbose\fR
Provide verbose output.
.TP 
\fB\-f <name> \-\-file=<name>\fR
\fIname\fR is the file to decrypt.
.TP 
\fB\-o \-\-original\fR
Keep the cypher text after it has been decrypted. Decryption of the cypher text 
\fIname.enc\fR will produce the file \fIname\fR. If the switch is not set, the 
cypher text \fIname.enc\fR will be deleted once it has been decrypted.
.TP 
\fB\-g <key\-name> \-\-generate=<key\-name>\fR
Generate a public/private key pair identified (by the \-\-scan, \-\-default and 
the \-\-key switches) as \fIkey\-name\fR. The new pair is placed in the default 
RSA key directory if set by the RSA_KEYPATH environment variable, otherwise in 
the current working directory. The maximum length allowed for \fIkey\-name\fR 
is 15 characters. The generated public and private keys are normally named 
\fIkey\-name.pub\fR and \fIkey\-name.prv\fR respectively. A different RSA key 
pair is produced for each of the different encryption levels and in each case, 
one of the keys is inserted in the public key file, and the other in the 
private key file. Which of the different encryption level pairs is used during 
encryption is determined by setting the encryption level when encrypting with 
rsa_enc. This information is stored in the cypher text header, later to be used 
during decryption.
.TP 
\fB\-i \-\-info\fR
Output information regarding the encrypted file stated by the \-\-file switch. 
The information reported consists of the encryption method, encryption 
key\-name and the encryption level.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBRSA_KEYPATH\fP
Specifies the directory where new RSA key pairs are to be generated and where 
existing private keys are searched and scanned.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Ilan A. Smith <lunnys@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
rsa_enc(1)
